Welcome to lecture discussing machine learning of Sparke Sparke has its own M-L live for machine learning
and Emma live just stands for a machine learning library.
The future of M-L lib utilizes the spark 2.0 data framed syntax which we just learned about in this
course.
Now it used to focus on the ARDE decent tax cuts that older Spark's syntax.
But the main focus is using SPARC 2.0.
French syntax and if you visit the documentation page it will actually tell you that the RTT syntax
is outdated and eventually it's no longer going to be supported or updated.
So one of the main quirks when dealing with the M-L lib machine learning library is that you need a
form at your data so eventually it just has one or two columns and if using a supervised learning algorithm
the two columns are going to be features and labels unsupervised.
It's just the features column.
Basically what that means is if you have a data set with a ton of feature columns you eventually need
to condense those all down to just a singular column where each entry in that single column so the rows
is actually just an array consisting of all those old entries and that will make a lot more sense when
we actually show you how to do that.
But I think personally speaking at this point in time one of the documentation's weak points is showing
you how to go through that process of turning realistic data into a just same features column.
But we definitely focus on that process in the beginning of this course.
As far as the machine learning section.
So overall this requires a little more data processing work than some other machine learning libraries.
But the big upside and the whole reason for all this data processing work is that that exact same since
tax will work with the treated data.
So if you have a huge dataset you don't need to learn a new syntax for it so that's no small feat for
what's actually going on under the hood with Peifer and SPARC.
It just requires you to put in a little more work with data processing and we're going to show you how
to make that kind of an easy task with different vector indexers throughout the rest of the machine
learning half of the course but I'm getting ahead of myself.
We'll see they're all when we talk about the code when working with Python and Sparc and the Lib documentation
examples are always with nicely formatted data.
However after we show a documentation example of how to work with the machine learning algorithm we're
going to have our own custom examples to have mesir more realistic data to work with.
And will also have the consulting projects which set you loose on a real world data project with a data
set and a problem to solve a explicitly telling you what to do is step by step.
So I think you'll have a lot of enjoyment and fun getting to work on a more realistic scenario.
All right.
A huge part of learning M-L lib is getting comfortable with the documentation being able to master the
skill of finding information not just memorizing it is really the key to becoming a great spark in Python
developer.
Fortunately the spark M-L lib documentation is actually quite good and will constantly teach you how
to refer to it.
Each machine learning algorithm section.
I think just one of the weak points is if you're totally new to it it may be a little hard to discover
what you're looking for but overall the documentation is quite clear.
It has lots of examples and all those examples come when you download Sparke.
So let's jump to the documentation now and kind of teach you how to navigate it.
So the link you want to visit is that sparked that Apache that org.
I'll show you the lay of the land for the navigation.
I'm going to hop over there right now in my own browser.
So this is what the home page for Sparc for Apache that org looks like.
Now we're going to select the documentation and go to latest release sparked 2.1 and then there is a
basic spark overview.
But we really want the M-L lib so we come down here and go to MLA for machine learning.
You basically know everything that you need to know about the frame's datasets and sequel.
So hop straight to machine learning.
And here we have the machine learning M-L lib guide and it says an announcement that the data frame
based the API is the primary API.
Zoom in C see this a little better.
So again the RTD based API is now in maintenance mode but that's no problem for us because we just focused
a lot of our energy into learning data frame's really well.
So we have no problem with the data from API.
And this is it right here.
The main guide for M-L lib.
So there's a lot to focus on here and we'll touch on this often we're actually learning how to work
with different algorithms but I just want to guide you through everything that's here.
So we'll start actually with classification and regression which is going to be one of the first things
we actually visit here.
So classification and regression has a table of contents and basically it shows you all the algorithms
available for classification tasks as well as all the algorithms available for regression tests.
And then it talks a little more about decision trees and tree ensembles and we will discuss things like
in the forest gradient boosting trees et cetera.
But when you click on these let's say you want to deal with basically the regression when the first
things we'll learn about in this course come down here and it shows you a basic idea of linear regression
and then an example.
And if you click here on Python This has the Python code and will actually walk through this for every
algorithm we teach in this course will walk through the basic documentation example.
So essentially you just import the model.
You have your training data and the training data for these documentation examples is always nicely
formatted.
We'll show you some other examples where you have to deal with messier or illusory data.
You create an instance in the model you train the model and then you call various things on your model
against some sort of testing or here they're actually doing the training set but we'll discuss that
later and you evaluate your model.
So these are pretty simple examples but it's nice to go through them because it gives you an idea of
the basic workflow when dealing with PI sparks M-L libraries.
So scrolling back up you can see all the various examples here and also show you a little bit of background.
It also has some useful links for more information.
So that's the basic idea behind classification and regression.
There's also the clustering section.
Now if you're looking for an algorithm for classification and it's not listed here then most likely
it's just not supported yet.
And Python and Sparke So keep that in mind.
And then we're going to come over here click on clustering and we can see the various clustering algorithms
that are available to us.
Not a whole lot of selection here.
Basically k means LPA bisecting k means.
And then this Gaussian mixture model will really focus on K means because that's the most common one
used.
And it's also once you know one of them you basically know all of them collaborative filtering.
We're going to be using that for a recommender system.
So keep that in mind as we continue on towards the end of the course we discuss recommender system will
use collaborative filtering for that.
Then there's extracting transforming and selecting features.
This is actually a really important page here and it's something we're going to visit often but basically
this is going to allow you to convert your data sets into a format that's easily readable by the machine
learning libraries that Matlab has.
So a lot of the things we're going to be working with are things like vector indexers indexes string
the string lexer etc. and there are a lot of things here for dealing with natural language processing
like tokenizer stopwatches remover.
And we're going to talk about all of that later on in the course.
But keep this page in mind whenever we're dealing with things like transforming features.
And if you click on one of these just to show you quickly for instance vector indexer.
You go down it gives you a description of what it was click on the Python tab and it shows you a quick
example of how to use it.
So scrolling all the way back up.
Lots of examples there which is really nice.
Then there's pipeline's.
We'll discuss that later on.
The pipelines are basically a way to kind of set a bunch of stuff.
So once you have the steps you put it all in a pipeline and you don't have to manually write out all
those singular steps anymore and we'll discuss that later on the course.
OK.
There's also some things about model selection and tuning which we'll briefly mention we'll do the train
test splits herself and there's also things like advanced topics we won't really touch in on these.
And in fact for most use cases you really shouldn't be messing around with these sort of things.
This is kind of way beyond the scope of this course.
So again it's really for hardcore developers as far as itemization of these linear method so don't worry
too much about these advanced topics.
The last thing I want to mention is how you actually get the API docs if you really want to dive deep
into something you click here on a paradox hit Python and it will take you to the API page.
So if you ever want to dive into what's really available for a certain price spark call you come over
here.
So for instance we see PI Sparke Amlet package.
Let's click on regression.
I'll zoom in a little more here.
So we hit on regression really any of these and I'll show you the regression model of the API and then
it shows you everything that's available for these models as well as some more in-depth tutorials or
not really tutorials but just code examples here as well as the methods or attributes available.
So this is the API for everything that's available to you.
And I definitely recommend kind of diving into these things when you feel more comfortable with the
basics of paice Mark.
All right.
That's really all we need to know right now for the documentation.
It's definitely a great skill to have to feel comfortable clicking around documentation.
Navigating it and finding information on your own and will definitely guide you through that process
throughout the rest of the course.
All right.
I hope you're really excited to begin learning machine learning with Python and SPARC.
It's a really powerful tool to have and I can't wait to teach it to you.